feat: identify (#286)
libp2p/docs: content/concepts/introduction/protocols/identify.md

weight: 23
---

> The libp2p identify protocol is a way for nodes to query and inform other nodes
> about their metadata, such as their public key and the protocols they support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The libp2p Identify protocol is a way for nodes to query and inform other nodes
about their metadata, such as their public key and the protocols they support.
```

Reviewer: I think we should have a list here of what Identify does, namely:
* the user agent (explain what that is)
* informs the peer of their public IP address
* ships the list of the multiaddresses we're listening on
* ships the list of protocols we support

(This probably needs to be polished a bit to sound nicer)

Author: That sounds good

There are two variations of the protocol: `identify` and `identify/push`.

The identify protocol, identified by the protocol ID `/ipfs/id/1.0.0`, is used
to query a remote node for its metadata. To do so, a node opens a stream to the
remote node and the remote node responds with an `Identify` message containing
its metadata and closes the stream.

The identify/push protocol, identified by the protocol ID `/ipfs/id/push/1.0.0`,
is used to inform other nodes about changes in a node's metadata. When a
node's metadata changes, it can "push" the new information to other nodes by opening
a stream to each of the nodes to be updated, and sending an `Identify` message
containing the updated metadata. Upon receiving the pushed `Identify` message, the
remote node can update its local metadata repository with the information from the
message, taking into account that missing fields should be ignored as the message may
contain only partial updates.

> The `Identify` message contains several fields:

Reviewer: I don't think we need to go through the fields of the protobuf. Instead, we should explain what the purpose of each of the bullet points (see above) is.

weight: 23
---

> The libp2p Identify protocol is a way for nodes in the libp2p network to share
> and query information about each other. This information includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The libp2p Identify protocol is a way for nodes in the libp2p network to share
and query information about each other. It is usually run right after a new libp2p connection has been established, and at certain times during the lifetime of the connection.

The information exchanged includes:
```

- the user agent: a free-form string identifying the node's implementation, usually
  in the format "agent-name/version".
- the node's public IP address: the address of the node on the network, as seen by other nodes.
- the list of multiaddresses that the node is listening on: the various network addresses
  and ports that the node can be reached at.

> - the list of protocols that the node supports: the different communication methods that
>   the node can understand and use to communicate with other nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the list of protocols that the node supports
```

and maybe link to the protocol document?

There are two variations of the protocol: `identify` and `identify/push`.

> The Identify protocol, identified by the protocol ID `/ipfs/id/1.0.0`, is used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Identify protocol, for historical reasons identified by the protocol ID `/ipfs/id/1.0.0`, is used
```

> to query a remote node for its metadata. To do so, a node opens a stream to the
> remote node and the remote node responds with an `Identify` message containing
> its metadata and closes the stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to actively query a remote node for its metadata.
```

and combine with the next paragraph.

> <!-- ADD Diagram -->

Reviewer: Not sure if we need one, this should be really straightforward.

Author: I had sketched simple diagrams, one for identity and identify/push.

The identify/push protocol, identified by the protocol ID `/ipfs/id/push/1.0.0`,

> is used to inform other nodes about changes in a node's metadata. When a
> node's metadata changes, it can "push" the new information to other nodes by opening
> a stream to each of the nodes to be updated, and sending an `Identify` message
> containing the updated metadata. Upon receiving the pushed `Identify` message, the
> remote node can update its local metadata repository with the information from the
> message, taking into account that missing fields should be ignored as the message may
> contain only partial updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allows a node to push Identify data to the other node without having been queried.
This is used whenever changes to the data sent in Identify happen, e.g. when the node
starts listening on a new address, and when the node adds or removes support for
a protocol.
```

{{< alert icon="" context="note">}}

> It's worth noting that go-libp2p included a feature called 'Identify Delta' for some time,
> but it has since been deprecated due to its complexity outweighing its usefulness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's worth noting that go-libp2p used to include a feature called 'Identify Delta' (<insert protocol ID>) for some time.
This protocol was used to reduce the size of Identify Pushes, but proved to be less useful (and a lot more complex) than expected.
It has since been deprecated, but a lot of nodes on the IPFS network still support this protocol.
```

{{< /alert >}}

> <!-- ADD Diagram -->

Reviewer: Another one? ;)
